## … you might have asked the wrong questions

Note: So what might have been the questions asked to get 'use UTC' as the default answer?
---
* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->what is this "UTC" anyhow
* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->where is UTC relevant
* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->and where is it not
* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->how does that affect my coding

Note: When you leave this session I hope that you will understand better ... and then to also ask the right questions.
And yes! UTC will still be a valid answer to some of them. But not to all!
---
# What is this "UTC" anyhow?
---
<!-- .slide: data-background-image="deck/resources/earth.jpg" -->
Note: The earth as seen from Apollo 11 (IIRC) - For aeons humankind was using natural time for measuring what happened.
people used more or less sophisticated methods for calculating years, months, weeks, days and even hours. Minutes and especially seconds less so...
Until...
---
<!-- .slide: data-background-image="deck/resources/industrialization.jpg" -->
Note: Until industrialization introduced the concept of work-time. Suddenly minutes and even seconds became of interest
Attribution: Kheel Center - https://www.flickr.com/photos/kheelcenter/5279325617/in/photolist-2nT6gJp-2j2XqaN-93vVzt-ocE6KV-nVbxhF-nVakcy-nVaejQ-nVbbG2-nVacRE-ocuUVf-ocvgC7-oaBqE7-nVazMo-oczB4b-nVazPY-nVaFKr-ocvh2o-ocE6sF-ocmSbv-nV9Xyd-ocuUEf-oczYuh-ocmRot-oczYeC-ocE6Vp-ocE846-ocmQVe-nVaEUD-ocmtTV-nV9XCG-ocvi7j-nVacXb-nVaibt-nVbx94-oeqFHt-ocmu2v-ocuVa3-8NiPYK-ocmu3T-nVbb3r-nVamxj-nVazMy-ocmtUg-oaBMmY-ocDJvR-ocvgBf
---
<!-- .slide: data-background-image="deck/resources/cuckoo-clock.jpg" -->
Note: People suddenly needed a time-tracking device at home. A clock. in the early days that often were cheap wooden ones
---
<!-- .slide: data-background-image="deck/resources/atomic-clock.jpg" -->
Note: But the more accuracy was required, the more complex these clocks became.
---
## What is "Time"?

> Time is the continued sequence of existence and events that occurs in an apparently irreversible succession from the past, through the present, into the future
> (wikipedia)
---
## What is "Time"?

> what a clock reads
---
## How do we measure "Time"

* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->a fraction of the earths rotation relative to the sun
* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->a fraction of the earths rotation relative to fixed stars
* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->based on transition frequency of an atom
---
## Local Time

* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->based on the earths rotation relative to the sun
* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->exact calculation changed throughout the years
* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->difficult to measure.
* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->Changes throughout the world based on longitude
---
## Greenwich Mean Time (GMT)

* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->Local Time at the Greenwich Observatory
* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->Just another Local Time
* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->Actual offset to sun highest point up to 16 minutes
* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->adopted as global standard in 1884 (Int. Meridian Conference)
---
## Universal Time (UT1)

* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->based on the earths rotation relative to fixed stars
* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->is the same everywhere on earth
---
## TAI

* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->based on the fixed numerical value of the caesium frequency
* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->1 second = 9 192 631 770 transitions of a Caesium 133 atom
* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->just counts seconds
---
## UTC

UTC !== UT1 !== GMT !== TAI
---
## UTC

* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->based on TAI
* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->coordinated to have less than 1 second offset to UT1
* <!-- .element: class="fragment" -->enter: Leap-Seconds
Note: Wait... What? There are differences?
---
## Differences

* TAI is based on physics
* UT1 is based on astronomy
Note: Astronomy is observing the actual universe. And the universe is changing. Which means for example that the earths
rotation is slowing down slowly. But not at a steady rate. And sometimes it might actually increase...
---
### Questions so far?
